
Out of the south the biplane came winging back toward the camp, a black speck against the dazzling white of the vast ice-fields that extended unbroken to the horizon on every side.
I was back in my own world, in New York City. This was night: I tried to calculate the time. Derek and I had departed about midnight. This would be, then some time before dawn. I was in a cellar room, lying on its cement floor. There was a window, with a faint light outside it. A window up near the ceiling. A straggling illumination showed me a bin, a few barrels, a door leading into another room which looked as though it might be a machine shop.
Sometimes — in fact, quite often — I find myself wishing Denise were on my ship. I could have arranged that of course, but I had wanted to play fair with her. Having turned her down that night, I felt the least I could do was avoid  obstructing the field. But now . . . now when I dream of Aileen and Chris, 1 dream they are dead. That means I'm beginning to accept it, and with the acceptance my pragmatic, faithless body seems to be nominating Aileen’s successor. I feel ashamed of that, but maybe the attraction is not as purely physical as I was supposing. Delia Liggett, a catering supervisor on the Bissendorf, is on my ship and two of the other men on board have a good practical relationship with her — but 1 can’t work up much interest in a hot bunking system. I’m  positive this isn’t a ridiculous remnant of a captain-to-crew attitude, a notion that 1 ought to have her exclusively because my uniform shows 
the most silver braid.

DELIA RAND herself, in Shane’s quiet room at the hospital, removed his bandages. Her dark, close-shingled head made a curt little nod of professional satisfaction. Standing behind her, General Whitehall pursed his thin, wrinkled lips in a 
silent whistle of astonishment. Delia gave Shane a mirror.

“What are you trying to do to me,” giggled Delia, “make me change my mind?”
By pointing and mumbling and asking and trancing, he acquired lab - demonstration samples of nickel, aluminum, iron, copper, selenium, carbon and certain others. He asked for but could not afford deuterium, four-nines pure tantalum, and six-nines silver. The electrical-supply houses frustrated him deeply on the matter of small-gauge wire with a square cross-section, but someone directed him to a jewelry-findings store and he finally had what he wanted. A lively legal trade in carved rubies for jewelry had gone on since the days of the first colony. Martian craftspeople turned out plates, cups, goblets, paperweights, necklaces, sculptures, all manner of artifacts for sale on the three worlds. The money managers of Earth had strict tariffs on all kinds of Martian goods. Especially carved ruby.
The handsome Lieutenant, Clark Lacy, was playing with fire—the Colonel’s daughter. Delia Young, looking like anything but a colonel’s daughter, newted in his arms, her lips raised invitingly. Her sheer clad, deliciously-rounded figure rested lightly on Clark’s khaki knees.
"Perhaps," agreed the pseudo-executive, "and again, perhaps not. He won't get me here; I am sure of that. They have this part of the room insulated. The phone wire is cut--my conversations there are all faked.
"There is only one spot in this room where that current can pass. A heavy cable is grounded outside in wet earth. It comes to a copper plate on this desk; you can't see it--it is under those papers."
The fog drove in fast. Through straining eyes he tried in vain to glimpse the drama spread above. The world grew dark and gray. He buried his face in his hands.
"That?" asked the girl, turning the virgin-blue fire of her eyes on him. "That was my death-song that I practice each day. Perhaps soon I shall be released from this." She passed her hands over her beautiful, half-clothed body.

“You brute,” she said softly. “Maybe I’d like it!”
Two hours later, he had completed a fifteen-minute repair job. His clothing was shredded and his air extractor was completely clogged with dust.
Field opened his mouth to speak but the Martian motioned him testily into silence. "I know. You're going to babble foolishness about sunsets or something. But what do you know of beauty? Have you ever known what it was to witness the beauty of the naked copper wires when an AC current is turned on? Have you sensed the delicate loveliness of induced currents set up in a solenoid when a magnet is passed through it? 
It wasn't, for Mary, an attempt to strike back at those who had killed her lover, for Explorer II was going in the opposite direction. It wasn't a desire for adventure. It was flight. Mary fled, light-years away. 

—

" Oh, Delia ! Were you never in love? "
" Sure." Delia's face was a mottled red. " I — I got a terrible biological urge for Dr. Campbell." 
"Why, Delia! He's the handsome interne. That's wonder — " 
" Nope," said Delia matter-of-factly. " No hope. Too high-hat to even look at me. I got no background." 
Brooding, Charlotte watched the sick misery of the young eyes, saw the shoulders gallantly squared.
" Can't stay to gas," said Delia. " Got to keep an eye on her. Broke her drinking glass this afternoon and tried to cut her wrist." 

—

He explained in simple words the operation of the great instrument that brought in light rays from sources millions of light years away. He pointed out where the big mirror was placed--the one hundred-inch reflector--and he traced for the wondering man the pathway of light that finally converged upon a sensitized plate to catch and record what no eye had ever seen.
"Lieutenant," the voice told him. "you will do." 
He checked the younger man's flow of questions and turned him back toward the stairs. "We will leave them to their work," he said; "they will be gathering light that has been traveling millions of years on its ways. But you and I have something a great deal nearer to study."
“You've never seen the beauties of a sunset or of dancing fields of flowers. You can't admire the blue of the sky, the green of the grass, the yellow of ripe corn. To you the world consists of shades of dark and light." He shuddered at the thought. "You can't smell a flower or appreciate its delicate perfume. You can't even enjoy such a simple thing as a good, hearty meal. You can't taste nor smell nor see color. I pity you for your drab world."
He had his leg straightened on Earth. That world was as colorful, as complex, as intoxicating as it was claimed to be. One series of marvels after another presented themselves before his inexperienced eyes like scenes in a vision show — except that he was actually there, breathing, tasting, feeling a part of this vast sophistication.
He told the wondering man briefly of his experience and of the people themselves, the real owners of this world.
He smiled sardonically into the gray gloom, knowing that his thinking was running backwards, that he had acted before reasoning why, that he was rationalizing in an attempt to soothe himself and absolve himself. But a lot of human thinking occurred beneath the level of consciousness, down in the darker regions of the mind where it was not allowed to become conscious lest it bring shame to the thinker. And perhaps he had reasoned it all out in that mental half-world where thoughts are inner ghosts, haunting the possessed man with vague stirrings of uneasiness.
"Let her go ahead," he invited sardonically. "I'll find out as much as she does. Besides, the tests should be amusing. Delia is really too charming to die in America, Lieutenant. I'm going to take her home." 
But the scene remained unreal to him, like a badly lit stage on which the creature in its glittering steel cage stood out in sharp focus, while the humans were shadow-shapes stirring restlessly against a darkened background.
He saw a bright landscape under a tropic sun — gray-violet mountains in the distance, half-veiled by mist; nearer, tall stalks that bore heavy leaves and fronds of a startling blue-green; and directly ahead of him, a broad plaza that might have been cut from one monstrous boulder of jade. On either side were low, box-shaped structures of dark vitreous material: blue, brown, green and red. And in the middle of the plaza stood a group of slender shapes that were unquestionably alive, sentient.
And held in front of him the slender figure of a girl. Hope! He clutched her, his thick arm encircling her breast. With sinking heart I realized what had happened. Hope had moved away from me. Everyone in the room had been intent upon Derek. Rohbar had come quietly in, after murdering the king, had seized Hope, stifled her outcry, and had taken her up into the tower.
Nearest of all the figures was the girl who was visualizing all this for us. She was walking slowly away from the cluster of coral structures. Once or twice she paused, and seemed to hold conversation with others of the strange people, but each time she moved on.
He was about to say something about how good it would be to get out on the Sound again when a black mass with streaks of coral flashed abreast on the right, cut across his lane, outstripped the car 
obliquely ahead, cut sharply back, and continued in and out of the two lanes.
Delia looked down the corridor cautiously. 
He would never forget her. There was a picture in his mind that could not be blotted out--a picture of a tall, slender girl, trim and straight in her mannish attire, who came toward him from her little red speedster. She held out her hand impulsively, and her eyes were smiling as she said; "We will be generous, Monsieur--"
KRISCH strapped himself into the speedster and eased it out through the exit tunnel. He had put the entire student body through interrogation and a psych check, and had turned up fifty-three more cases of induced aberration. For the time being, he had left them all at liberty but carefully monitored; he hoped that one of them might be approached again by the saboteur, whoever or whatever it was. 
“Why go after him?” Redwing smiled. There was no warmth in his smile. “Chaos. This should muddy things up a little. It should embarrass a lot of people. It’s too pat; somebody on the emergency defense committee will catch the blame. A saboteur. Disunity will erupt. And of course that’s the prelude for our campaign against the unions. I’m setting it up for the wolves.”
"Maybe Delia can give you a copy of my face," he continued. "But the scars will be visible to one who knows how to look. I'm a quarter of an inch taller. My eyes and my voice and my hair are different. You may forget one of my habits, which  you've been studying so carefully, and betray yourself with some little trick of your own. Remember, Shane, life is hard Outside. It's easy to keep alive in America. A naked animal can do it. But it takes a lot of skill and a lot of equipment to keep alive Outside."
His host laughed gleefully, "the spark of life, the vital force, is merely an extremely complicated electrical
manifestation which I have been able to duplicate artificially. This spark or force is all that distinguishes living from inanimate matter, and in living beings the force gradually decreases in power as the years
pass, causing loss of health and strength. The chemical composition of bones and tissue alters, joints become stiff, muscles atrophied, and
bones brittle. By recharging, as it were, with the vital force, the gland action is intensified, youth and strength is renewed. By repeating the process every ten or fifteen years the same degree of vigor can be
maintained indefinitely. Mankind will become immortal. That is why I say I am to be master of the world." He gave a hard little laugh. "Don't you see that you're a fool?" 
You fool, the puudly had said. You fool, you half-thing, you duplicate . . . 
You duplicate! 
I am not a fool. Moreover, I had had the advantage of knowing my grandfather — better even than father ever did. T knew how he would think and how he would react. He was the kind of man who 
went at things hard — all out — to the limit of his ability. It seemed clear enough to me that the first 
step in finding the knife was to determine what that limit was— although in thirteen years or so nobody had chosen that approach.
He felt the strength and the personality and the hard, unquestioned identity of himself as Henderson James, human being, drain out of him, as if someone had cut the puppet string and he, the puppet, had slumped supine upon the stage. 
So that was why he had been able to surprise the puudly! 
There were two Henderson Jameses. The puudly had been in contact with one of them, the original, the real Henderson James, had known every move he made, had known that it was safe so far as that Henderson James might be concerned. It had not known of the second Henderson James that had stalked it through the night.
Henderson James, duplicate.
Henderson James, temporary. 
Henderson James, here tonight, gone tomorrow.
For they would not let him live. The original Henderson James would not allow him to continue living, and even if he did, the world would not allow it. Duplicates were made only for very temporary and very special reasons and it was al- ways understood that once their purpose was accomplished they would be done away with. 
Done away with . . . those were the words exactly. Gotten out of the way. Swept out of sight and mind. Killed as unconcernedly and emotionlessly as one chops off a chicken’s head. 
He walked forward and dropped on one knee beside the puudly, running his hand over its body in the darkness. Lumps stood out all over it, the swelling buds that now would never break to spew forth in a loathsome birth a brood of puudly pups. 
He rose to his feet. 
The job was done. The puudly had been killed—killed before it had given birth to a horde of horrors. 
The job was done and he could go home. 
Home? 
Of course, that was the thing that had been planted in his mind, the thing they wanted him to do. To go home, to go back to the house on Summit avenue, where his executioners would wait, to walk back deliberately and unsuspectingly to the death that waited. 
The job was done and his usefulness was over. He had been created to perform a certain task and the task was now performed and while an hour ago he had been a factor in the plans of men, he was no longer wanted. He was an embarrassment and superfluous. 
Now wait a minute, he told himself. You may not be a duplicate. You do not feel like one.
That was true. He felt like Henderson James. He was Henderson James. He lived on Summit avenue and had illegally brought to Earth a beast known as a puudly in order that he might study it and talk to it and test its alien reactions, attempt to measure its intelligence and guess at the strength and depth and the direction of its non-humanity. He had been a fool, of course, to do it, and yet at the time it had seemed important to understand the deadly, alien mentality. 
He knew instinctively that the thing must be one of the Alpha Centaurians, for in its alien grotesqueness the figure was utterly dissimilar to anything ever seen upon Earth before.
I am human, he said, and that was right, but even so the fact meant nothing. Of course he was human. Henderson James was hu- man and his duplicate would be exactly as human as the original. For the duplicate, processed from the pattern that held every trait and characteristic of the man he was to become a copy of, would differ in not a single basic factor. 
In not a single basic factor, perhaps, but in certain other things. For no matter how much the duplicate might be like his pattern, no matter how full-limbed he might spring from his creation, he still would be a new man. He would have the capacity for knowledge and for thought and in a little time he -would have and know and be all the things that his original was... 
But now he was utterly, utterly, completely alone. On all this planet, there was not one soul who loved, respected or trusted him, not even the orphaned Crescenzi children, who had taken to running and hiding from him when he came near. 
