Astounding
Pulp 
Galaxy


A GEMS Collective Sci-Fi Pulp Novel
Feat. Aaron Winslow
UCLA | 2020

CH. 1

Out of the south the biplane came winging back toward the camp, a black speck against the dazzling white of the vast ice-fields that extended unbroken to the horizon on every side.
I was back in my own world, in New York City. This was night: I tried to calculate the time. Derek and I had departed about midnight. This would be, then some time before dawn. I was in a cellar room, lying on its cement floor. There was a window, with a faint light outside it. A window up near the ceiling. A straggling illumination showed me a bin, a few barrels, a door leading into another room which looked as though it might be a machine shop.
Sometimes — in fact, quite often — I find myself wishing Denise were on my ship. I could have arranged that of course, but I had wanted to play fair with her. Having turned her down that night, I felt the least I could do was avoid  obstructing the field. 
But now . . . now when I dream of Aileen and Chris, 1 dream they are dead. That means I'm beginning to accept it, and with the acceptance my pragmatic, faithless body seems to be nominating Aileen’s successor. I feel ashamed of that, but maybe the attraction is not as purely physical as I was supposing. 
Delia Liggett, a catering supervisor on the Bissendorf, is on my ship and two of the other men on board have a good practical relationship with her — but 1 can’t work up much interest in a hot bunking system. I’m positive this isn’t a ridiculous remnant of a captain-to-crew attitude, a notion that 1 ought to have her exclusively because my uniform shows the most silver braid.
Don't take this to mean that my parents, or grandparents, are in any way responsible for my subsequent actions. They corrected me, taught me the ways of righteousness, and spanked me when I needed it just as millions of adoring parents have spanked their wayward offspring. One of these first spankings was in connection with the gift to me of my first mama- doll, and I received the chastisement on Christmas Day.
When Hadley later constructed his space flyer and proposed to visit the moon, it was Delia Carpenter who ridiculed the idea of the attempt being successful. He proposed the novel and weird idea that the path to space was not open, but that the earth and the atmosphere were enclosed in a hollow sphere of impenetrable substance through which Hadley's space flyer could not pass. How accurate were his prognostications was soon known to everyone. Hadley built and equipped his flyer and started off on what he hoped would be an epoch making flight. It was one, but not in the way which he had hoped. His ship took off readily enough, being powered with four rocket motors working on Carpenter's principle, and rose to a height of about fifty miles, gaining velocity rapidly. At that point his velocity suddenly began to drop.
Fifty paces to my right a little knot of officers caught my attention. I recognized Delia Bradley. I remembered, someone had told me he was a major, and was commanding a raft. Good. Delia would work with me as he had in the old days at Stanford U., when I coached the air polo team that he captained. I walked over.
DELIA RAND herself, in Shane’s quiet room at the hospital, removed his bandages. Her dark, close-shingled head made a curt little nod of professional satisfaction. Standing behind her, General Whitehall pursed his thin, wrinkled lips in a silent whistle of astonishment. Delia gave Shane a mirror. 
	“What are you trying to do to me,” giggled Delia, “make me change my mind?”
By pointing and mumbling and asking and trancing, he acquired lab - demonstration samples of nickel, aluminum, iron, copper, selenium, carbon and certain others. He asked for but could not afford deuterium, four-nines pure tantalum, and six-nines silver. The electrical-supply houses frustrated him deeply on the matter of small-gauge wire with a square cross-section, but someone directed him to a jewelry-findings store and he finally had what he wanted. A lively legal trade in carved rubies for jewelry had gone on since the days of the first colony. Martian craftspeople turned out plates, cups, goblets, paperweights, necklaces, sculptures, all manner of artifacts for sale on the three worlds. The money managers of Earth had strict tariffs on all kinds of Martian goods. Especially carved ruby.
But that was the second day of the work upon our own world, and just before sunset there was a droning in the earthly sky above the laboratory, and Tommy ran out, and somebody shot at him from a patch of woodland a quarter of a mile away from the brick building. Isolated as Denham's place was, the shot would go unnoticed. The bullet passed within a few feet of Tommy, but he paid no attention. It was one of Jacaro's watchers, no doubt, but Jacaro did not want Tommy killed. So Tommy waited until the plane swooped low--almost to the level of the laboratory roof--and a thickly padded package thudded to the ground. He picked it up and darted back into the laboratory as other bullets came from the patch of woodland.
The handsome Lieutenant, Clark Lacy, was playing with fire—the Colonel’s daughter. Delia Young, looking like anything but a colonel’s daughter, newted in his arms, her lips raised invitingly. Her sheer clad, deliciously-rounded figure rested lightly on Clark’s khaki knees.
"Now, my daughter," he said, "this young man takes $500 of my good money by sounding me out, as he calls it. Then he comes along and tries to take my daughter away from me. It is positively high-handed. It dates back to the football game—"
"Perhaps," agreed the pseudo-executive, "and again, perhaps not. He won't get me here; I am sure of that. They have this part of the room insulated. The phone wire is cut--my conversations there are all faked.
"There is only one spot in this room where that current can pass. A heavy cable is grounded outside in wet earth. It comes to a copper plate on this desk; you can't see it--it is under those papers."
The fog drove in fast. Through straining eyes he tried in vain to glimpse the drama spread above. The world grew dark and gray. He buried his face in his hands.
"That?" asked the girl, turning the virgin-blue fire of her eyes on him. "That was my death-song that I practice each day. Perhaps soon I shall be released from this." She passed her hands over her beautiful, half-clothed body.
“You brute,” she said softly. “Maybe I’d like it!”
A soft, horrible mass swept against my legs. I was overthrown. A tentacle slithered around my neck and constricted viciously like a length of rotten cable. I sawed at it with the long, notched blade I carried. Choking for air, I felt the pressure relax and scrambled to my knees.
This, the first, shall be the story of the star L-472. You know it to-day as Ibit, port-o'-call for interplanetary ships, and source of ocrite for the universe, but to me it will always be L-472, the world of terrible tentacles.
A wheel creaked, and in the dim light two figures appeared tugging at a cart upon which was a cage of woven wire. Beyond them, against the darker background of denser growth, tentacles coiled and twisted above the row of guardian plants that surrounded the house.
Carnes stared and echoed the Doctor's cry of surprise. Clinging to a shelf of rock which extended out from the wall of the cavern and half hidden among the seaweed was a huge marine creature. It looked like a huge black slug with rudimentary eyes and mouth. The thing was fifty feet in length and fully fifteen feet in diameter. It hung there, moving sluggishly as though breathing, and rudimentary tentacles projecting from one end moved in the water.
One of the serpentine tentacles whipped out, slapped against the tyranosaur's fore-shoulder to call forth a hiss and a short bellow. Then other tentacles waved in the moonlight, and in a flash the tyranosaur was enmeshed as by a score of slimy cables. He was not altogether helpless. Suddenly the steam shovel of a beak buried itself in the jelly body of the water animal, and there spurted out a flood of inky liquid. The water animal emitted a sickening gurgle. But the tyranosaur's advantage was only temporary. Closer and closer drew the ugly, scabrous tentacles. The tyrannosaur never had a chance. Its green eyes flared, the shovel beak plunged and slashed, but never for a second did the tentacles relax. As Kirby stared, he saw the water animal begin to back up, dragging its gigantic enemy with it. For a second the whole night was hideous with the sound of hisses, gurgles, dashing water. Then the river boiled once and for all, and both animals sank in its depths.
"'A week ago Atlantic City reported that seven men were snatched off fishing boat by unidentified tentacled monsters. Testimony of witnesses was discredited, but was later corroborated by the almost identical testimony of other witnesses at Brighton Beach, England, who saw man and woman taken by mysterious monsters whilst bathing.' Perhaps these same creatures destroyed the Newfoundland fishing fleet." His level voice ceased. Hm...
"If such a thing was really going on, I felt that my reputation would make me an attractive bait and I secured a double, as you know, and placed him in a position where his kidnapping would be an easy matter. I was sure that the victims were being taken away by air and that lethane was being used to reduce the neighborhood to a state of profound somnolence, so I hid myself near my double with a gas detector which would find even minute traces of lethane in the air. "Dennis." A sweet whisper from behind him. He gazed up and found his wife Delia, hair golden and perfect. She motioned him toward the door. "No sense making her all terrified; let's wait until she starts getting weaker." 

CH. 2

Dennis shuddered at the memory of Esther's words from that October
Two hours later, he had completed a fifteen-minute repair job. His clothing was shredded and his air extractor was completely clogged with dust.
He fought almost by instinct alone, instinct twenty  years of piloting had planted deep in his veins. He fought for Lance--for America. His eyes, glazing rapidly, could not distinguish the roaring phantoms that laced around his lone plane, but uncannily his bursts of fire went home again and again, while theirs ripped aimlessly over the Goshawk's hell-driven snout.
Field opened his mouth to speak but the Martian motioned him testily into silence. "I know. You're going to babble foolishness about sunsets or something. But what do you know of beauty? Have you ever known what it was to witness the beauty of the naked copper wires when an AC current is turned on? Have you sensed the delicate loveliness of induced currents set up in a solenoid when a magnet is passed through it? 
It wasn't, for Mary, an attempt to strike back at those who had killed her lover, for Explorer II was going in the opposite direction. It wasn't a desire for adventure. It was flight. Mary fled, light-years away. 
"And I,"—her laugh had a queer break in it—"I am Mistress Mary Atwood. But just a few minutes ago—oh, am I dreaming? Surely I'm not insane!"
Larry again leaned over us. "What are you talking about?"
"You're friendly, you two. Like men; strange, so very strange-looking young men. This—this carriage without any horses—I know now it won't hurt me."
She sat up. "Take me to your doctor. And then to the general of your army. I must see him, and warn him. Warn you all." She was turning half hysterical again. She laughed wildly. "Your general—he won't be General Washington, of course. But I must warn him."
She gripped me. "You think I am demented. But I am not. I am Mary Atwood, daughter of Major Charles Atwood, of General Washington's staff. That was my home, where you broke the window. But it did not look like that a few moments ago. You tell me this is the year 1935, but just a few moments ago I was living in the year 1777!"
"Oh, Delia! Were you never in love?"
"Mais oui; I can!" she insisted in a calm, business-like tone/ appropriate to her words. "Suppose that I married you, Alphonse; what would life hold for me, other than a futile struggle against overwhelming odds? In the capacity of wife of a very ordinary writer whose income does not even approach a substantial figure, I would feel that I had lived entirely in vain. I cannot, and I will riot, be provincial, regardless of the price. The ambitions which I have cherished for seven long years refuse to be smothered, and even the whole-hearted love of a man would scarcely be adequate to fill the gap in my heart which their abandon ment I have promised myself that it shall be would occasion. The world is large, and my playground. I want to travel, to see things, to do things, and to enjoy the luxuries which life denies the average woman. If you were in a position to offer me these things, I would fly to your arms in the traditional melodramatic fashion; but" she hesitated, and her eyes sought the floor.
"Sure." Delia's face was a mottled red. " I — I got a terrible biological urge for Dr. Campbell." 
"Why, Delia! He's the handsome interne. That's wonder — " 
"Nope," said Delia matter-of- factly. " No hope. Too high-hat to even look at me. I got no background." 
Brooding, Charlotte watched the sick misery of the young eyes, saw the shoulders gallantly squared.
" Can't stay to gas," said Delia. " Got to keep an eye on her. Broke her drinking glass this afternoon and tried to cut her wrist." 
	A Mugwump sits brooding outside the door to the museum exhibit. Inside, videos are running clips from some very weird horror movies. Drawings of monsters adorn the walls; and props, such as the "gynecological instruments for mu- 
tant women," are on display.
But at least all his clothes were soldiers’ clothes. His honor guard had to piece out their uniforms with personal articles. They had complained bitterly about the injustice of this, and had come close to deserting. But Drak, after some hasty reading in Smogget’s Leadership, told them about the Terran doctrine of the Privileges of Rank.
The old witch had wrapped it in a dirty blanket. I took it out of her arms and ran out of the room throwing a hasty thanks over my shoulder and a muttered promise to return the blanket as soon as Mary was safely in the hospital.


CH. 3

Nowhere in the history of mankind has ignorance and superstition manifested it- self to such a universal degree as in the science of medical treatment, especially where drugs are concerned. Almost every known sub- stance under the sun has been attributed at one time or another with the power of bringing about some miraculous body cure, and the list is one that will bring amazement and amusement to modern men. The fact that a substance was new, unusual, or difficult to obtain seemed to exaggerate its possible importance as a medicine, and by one means or another it was forced into the human system. Even the common potato, when first in- troduced into Europe and judged as a novelty, was used as an ingredient in what was then known as a love potion. Gold dissolved in acid, referred to as "potable gold" was once a cure-all. Thousands of substances ranging from powdered Egyptian mummy to ground pearls were supposed to bring the stricken medieval aristocrats back to health, but of course they never did.
He explained in simple words the operation of the great instrument that brought in light rays from sources millions of light years away. He pointed out where the big mirror was placed--the one hundred-inch reflector--and he traced for the wondering man the pathway of light that finally converged upon a sensitized plate to catch and record what no eye had ever seen.
"Lieutenant," the voice told him. "you will do." 
He checked the younger man's flow of questions and turned him back toward the stairs. "We will leave them to their work," he said; "they will be gathering light that has been traveling millions of years on its ways. But you and I have something a great deal nearer to study."
“You've never seen the beauties of a sunset or of dancing fields of flowers. You can't admire the blue of the sky, the green of the grass, the yellow of ripe corn. To you the world consists of shades of dark and light." He shuddered at the thought. "You can't smell a flower or appreciate its delicate perfume. You can't even enjoy such a simple thing as a good, hearty meal. You can't taste nor smell nor see color. I pity you for your drab world."
	He had his leg straightened on Earth. That world was as colorful, as complex, as intoxicating as it was claimed to be. One series of marvels after another presented themselves before his inexperienced eyes like scenes in a vision show — except that he was actually there, breathing, tasting, feeling a part of this vast sophistication.
	He told the wondering man briefly of his experience and of the people themselves, the real owners of this world.
	"A people have grown there. A terrible people that I shall not try to describe to you. They threaten us with slavery, with extinction. Four ara ago (the Antrians have their own system of reckoning time, just as we have on Earth, instead of using the universal system, based upon the enaro. An ara corresponds to about fifty hours, Earth time.) we did not know that such a people existed. Now their shadow is upon all our beautifully sunny country, and unless you can aid us, before other help can reach us, I am convinced that Antri is doomed!"
	"As nearly as I can make out, there is a race of men up there who are subject to these beetles. This ship is radium propelled, and the men and women are the slaves who work in the radium mines. Of course the workers soon become sexless, but others are kept for breeding purposes to keep the race alive. Through generations of in-breeding, the stock is about played out and are getting too weak to be of much value.
	Dr. Bird looked around. Every man stood ready at his post. The next man signalled that the borer was under him. Carnes felt himself trembling. He did not know what the doctor was about to do, but he felt that the fate of America hung in the balance. Whether it remained free or became the slave of Soviet Russia would quickly be decided.
	"Yes," replied Sarka tersely, "but there are only a dozen of the cubes. What can they do against countless millions of them? Cubes which are Moon-cubes, brought to the Earth in the heart of that blue column, here reformed to create an army which is invincible, because it cannot be slain! It means that the Moon-people themselves, thousands of miles out of our reach, have but to sit in comfort and watch their cube-slaves destroy us! When they have laid waste the Earth, the Martians have but to finish the fight!"
	Every great religion has as its psychological reason for existence the mission of compensating for some crying, unsatisfied human need. Christianity spread and grew among people who were, at the time, persecuted subjects or slaves of Rome; and it flourished through the Middle Ages at a time when life held for the individual chiefly pain, uncertainty, and bereavement. Christianity kept the common man consoled and mentally balanced by minimizing the importance of life on earth and offering compensation afterwards and elsewhere.
	"To live--and be a slave of _this_?" Again her hand went over her slim body. "A slave of a pile of flesh that you must feed and protect from the agonies that attack it on every side? Bah! But I am hoping that my turn will come next."
	An exchange of dismayed glances, and "Not so good!" said McGuire under his breath; "Simon Legree is asking for his slaves. Mean, ugly devil, that boy!"
	The victims get relief only with an antidote supplied through Ribiera, The Master's Chief Deputy; but in the antidote there is more of the poison, which again in two weeks will take effect. And so it is that a person who once receives the poison is forever enslaved.
The rain had stopped now. And the sky, drained clean of the ugly black clouds that had covered it, almost im- perceptibly grew light with the early rays of dawn.
	With all the insolence and self assurance of conquerors in the presence of slaves the four jet-eyed ambassadors swaggered up to the diamond throne. Then the foremost briefly inclined his head towards Altorius in a grudging salute and began to speak in deep, resonant tones.
	"This goes way back beyond them--it must," he reasoned. And there were pictures, long forgotten, that came to his mind to show him a vision from the past--figures whose coppery faces shone dark above their brilliant, colored robes--slaves, toiling and sweating to drive this tunnel into solid rock. He was suddenly a-quiver with a feeling of the presence of living things. His breath seemed stifled within him as he stepped into the dark where a pencil of light from his pocket-flash made the blackness more intense.
He's the man who fell overboard in a spacesuit and found that there really is a passage to India. It winds down from the Champion Deep in the Atlantic and comes out somewhere off Bombay. It took Regan a week to pop in one end of that underworld river and emerge at the other. He was delirious when he bobbed to the surface and was picked up by the Chinese motorship. Starved, of course; had to spend a long time in the hospital after he'd been transferred to shore. 
The newspapers and radio and television made quite a thing of it. Reporters managed to interview Regan while he was still weak and maybe talking a little crazy. They got together afterward and agreed among themselves on what parts to leave out. Then Regan sold the first-person rights to a syndicate. He insisted on writing the installments himself, but a lot was edited out while the staff writer was re-doing it. 
	From the tiny window came the shrill discordant braying of many trumpets, and a roar like that of a football crowd arose surprisingly near. In response, the slave driver lashed the gaudily bedecked sacrificial victims to their feet with vicious cuts of his pliant whip, and herded them like a drove of calves down a very long passage, lit at intervals by those strange column lamps of incandescent gas. In their red glare the doomed six seemed as though already bathed in blood.
	Those within the cavern were the rulers. They would always remain the rulers, and those outside would remain the slaves to wait upon them. And we--how strangely he pictured us, as he saw us!--were not to return to our queer worlds, that we might bring many other ships like the _Ertak_ back to interfere. No.
	From the tiny window came the shrill discordant braying of many trumpets, and a roar like that of a football crowd arose surprisingly near. In response, the slave driver lashed the gaudily bedecked sacrificial victims to their feet with vicious cuts of his pliant whip, and herded them like a drove of calves down a very long passage, lit at intervals by those strange column lamps of incandescent gas. In their red glare the doomed six seemed as though already bathed in blood.
With wonderful grace the three figures approached three of the giant toadstools and scaled them until each stood atop the uppermost saucerlike 
projection of a tree. Out of the cluster of limbs came one arm that seemed specially adapted; unlike the others, which were equipped with five tendril-shaped fingers arranged in a circlet, this limb ended in a needle-sharp organ. It plunged easily and deeply into the soft rubbery trunk of the tree on which its owner stood. A long moment passed, as if the aliens were draining sap from the trees. Then they climbed down and resumed their stroll, outwardly unchanged.
	He smiled sardonically into the gray gloom, knowing that his thinking was running backwards, that he had acted before reasoning why, that he was rationalizing in an attempt to soothe himself and absolve himself. But a lot of human thinking occurred beneath the level of consciousness, down in the darker regions of the mind where it was not allowed to become conscious lest it bring shame to the thinker. And perhaps he had reasoned it all out in that mental half-world where thoughts are inner ghosts, haunting the possessed man with vague stirrings of uneasiness.
“They haven’t any nervous system to speak of,” Duncan had said, “and a bullet in the heart wouldn’t stop them. Their brains are very tiny and even a crack shot wouldn’t be likely to find them. Don’t shoot, except as a last resort.” 
It was highly probable that the monstrosity which Nankivell instinctively felt was confronting him was of the same type as the Guardian of the Jungle. He lowered his pistol and thought. He was tempted to risk a shot into the air in the hope that the noise, confined and intensified as it would be by the corridor, would scare the intruder, but caution prevailed. He nervously wound his light to the fullest extent and began to retreat, keeping his face toward the menacing bulk which he could dimly distinguish at the end of the lighted area. As he drew back, the bulk came closer. Occasionally a slight scuffling sound reached his straining ears.

CH. 4

“This will never do,” he exclaimed nervously. “If I retreat the thing will follow me until it gets up courage to charge and then it’s just too bad. Besides, another one may come on me from the rear. The best thing to do is to face the music and try to bluff it.” 
	There was a dim consciousness of a painful impact. Teddy had fallen underneath, but the force of the two bodies coming together had thrust the knife deep into the entrails of the Mad Musician under thrust and had to find safety lest they be stepped on. The: TWorlie and his passenger were next to go, leaving only the robot to see to tucking Pertin and Doc Chimp in. The robot had no par- ticular objection to high gravity. Pertin had noticed that on the trip from the tachyon chamber. When the robot had to change direction it simply braced itself with a few of the steel-coil tentacles, stopped against whatever was in the way and pushed off in another direction,' The sensation for Pertin was like being tossed around at the end of a cracking whip, but he survived it.
	"Let her go ahead," he invited sardonically. "I'll find out as much as she does. Besides, the tests should be amusing. Delia is really too charming to die in America, Lieutenant. I'm going to take her home." 
	But the scene remained unreal to him, like a badly lit stage on which the creature in its glittering steel cage stood out in sharp focus, while the humans were shadow-shapes stirring restlessly against a darkened background.
Pertin roused himself. The thud and screech of the drive was still loud in his ear. Every time the floor drove up to meet the cocoon the single huge bruise his body had become screamed with pain. Inside his chest his lungs felt as though they had broken loose and were beaten sore against the inside of his rib cage.
The most unpleasant part was yet to come — Pertin had to tell his fiancee about the results of the meeting. She was sure to dislike it. Still, as he came closer to where she was waiting for him the unpleasant, aspects began to fade from his mind and he began to feel the joy of seeing. Zara Doy again. Bisexual love, it had turned out; was not very common in the galaxy, most, of whose races either reproduced in impersonal ways or reserved their emotional commitments for func- tions other than procreation. But^ Pertin and Zara Doy were deeply in love all the same. They planned to marry as soon as they could and rather enjoyed the fact that this- made them objects of interest to such beings as possessed personal curiosity at all.
	He saw a bright landscape under a tropic sun — gray-violet mountains in the distance, half-veiled by mist; nearer, tall stalks that bore heavy leaves and fronds of a startling blue-green; and directly ahead of him, a broad plaza that might have been cut from one monstrous boulder of jade. On either side were low, box-shaped structures of dark vitreous material: blue, brown, green and red. And in the middle of the plaza stood a group of slender shapes that were unquestionably alive, sentient.
	And held in front of him the slender figure of a girl. Hope! He clutched her, his thick arm encircling her breast. With a sinking heart I realized what had happened. Hope had moved away from me. Everyone in the room had been intent upon Derek. Rohbar had come quietly in, after murdering the king, had seized Hope, stifled her outcry, and had taken her up into the tower.
Small towers sometimes use their bracing bars as natural step-ladders, but big towers have a further burden. It takes a strong man, with a clear head, three fourths of an hour to climb a thousand feet, so any tower over that size definitely requires an elevator. That brings the full elaborate rigging of guide rails, driving mechanism, hoisting cables, counterweights, rope guards, and cab controls, all of which add to the weight and strain on the structure. Even with an elevator, one still needs a ladder for detail work. Tower hands, who have a very good head for heights, prefer their ladders out on the open 
air, where there are fewer encumbrances, and they can get the job done in short order. However, station engineers and station personnel, who sometimes need to whip up the tower to replace a light bulb or such, prefer a ladder that's nestled inside the tower, so the structure itself forms a natural safety cage.
	Nearest of all the figures was the girl who was visualizing all this for us. She was walking slowly away from the cluster of coral structures. Once or twice she paused, and seemed to hold conversation with others of the strange people, but each time she moved on. 
"No. It's normal." Delia stood away from him, as if struggling to squelch her own desire. Could it possibly be as intense as his? "Maybe we should cut off all our hair. Get fat, take bad-breath pills. That's what the Bonsers did for each other. Mary told me they haven't aroused each other in months."
He was about to say something about how good it would be to get out on the Sound again when a black mass with streaks of coral flashed abreast on the right, cut across his lane, outstripped the car 
obliquely ahead, cut sharply back, and continued in and out of the two lanes.
	Delia looked down the corridor cautiously. 
	He would never forget her. There was a picture in his mind that could not be blotted out--a picture of a tall, slender girl, trim and straight in her mannish attire, who came toward him from her little red speedster. She held out her hand impulsively, and her eyes were smiling as she said; "We will be generous, Monsieur--"
	KRISCH strapped himself into the speedster and eased it out through the exit tunnel. He had put the entire student body through interrogation and a psych check, and had turned up fifty-three more cases of induced aberration. For the time being, he had left them all at liberty but carefully monitored; he hoped that one of them might be approached again by the saboteur, whoever or whatever it was. 
	“Why go after him?” Redwing smiled. There was no warmth in his smile. “Chaos. This should muddy things up a little. It should embarrass a lot of people. It’s too pat; somebody on the emergency defense committee will catch the blame. A saboteur. Disunity will erupt. And of course that’s the prelude for our campaign against the unions. I’m setting it up for the wolves.”
	"Maybe Delia can give you a copy of my face," he continued. "But the scars will be visible to one who knows how to look. I'm a quarter of an inch taller. My eyes and my voice and my hair are different. You may forget one of my habits, which  you've been studying so carefully, and betray yourself with some little trick of your own. Remember, Shane, life is hard Outside. It's easy to keep alive in America. A naked animal can do it. But it takes a lot of skill and a lot of equipment to keep alive Outside."
	"Quick, Taru--the radiovision! Our ambassador in the Americas!" The Zar was on his feet, his hard features terrible in fear and anger. "By God!" he vowed, "I'll lay waste the Americas if harm has come to my son. And you"--turning to Karl--"I'll reserve for you an even more terrible fate than the vibrating death!"
	Even now, as Lance knew through various rumors, the Slavs were massed for a grand attack. And with what could America hold them back?
	Were the Americans dead?
	American flyers never knew of Basil Hay's last fight. Had they, it would have become legendary.
	"Of course, they have no official representative in America."
His host laughed gleefully, "the spark of life, the vital force, is merely an extremely complicated electrical manifestation which I have been able to duplicate artificially. This spark or force is all that distinguishes living from inanimate matter, and in living beings the force gradually decreases in power as the years pass, causing loss of health and strength. The chemical composition of bones and tissue alters, joints become stiff, muscles atrophied, and bones brittle. By recharging, as it were, with the vital force, the gland action is intensified, youth and strength is renewed. By repeating the process every ten or fifteen years the same degree of vigor can be maintained indefinitely. Mankind will become immortal. That is why I say I am to be master of the world." He gave a hard little laugh. "Don't you see that you're a fool?" 
You fool, the puudly had said. You fool, you half-thing, you duplicate . . . 
You duplicate! 
I am not a fool. Moreover, I had had the advantage of knowing my grandfather — better even than father ever did. T knew how he would think and how he would react. He was the kind of man who 
went at things hard — all out — to the limit of his ability. It seemed clear enough to me that the first 
step in finding the knife was to determine what that limit was— although in thirteen years or so nobody had chosen that approach.

	She did not answer. She knew that he knew and could not be fooled. It was as certain as the tight, hot clasp of her daughter- duplicate’s little hand on hers, as the way Husband-duplicate’s hand chilled and almost fell away from her looping fingers.

Even the children knew.

“You overstepped yourself, Amos,” she cried. “Had your dummy suffered in silence, I might have been fooled, but my lover is no whining coward. Do with me as you please, but of one thing I warn you, Amos, thrice-accursed renegade and traitor, you have not heard the last of that man you have dared to malign. Already he is on his way to Troyana. Heavy will be his vengeance for every indignity to which I am submitted.” 
“When hot iron tears your flesh and the claws of the Guardian reach out for you, Granddaughter of Nahum, you may speak in another voice,” grated Amos, his face a picture of baffled rage. 
The scene suddenly faded from view. Again came the throbbing of drums for an instant and then silence. Nankivell grasped his rifle and shook himself as if waking from a dream. He stood a moment in thought and then stole swiftly back toward the camp where his companions were sleeping. He bent over Mariston’s unconscious form. Slowly and with infinite craft he slipped Mariston’s automatic from its holster and laid it down. With greater care he detached the holster from the sleeping man’s belt and laid it beside the pistol. He removed the extra clips of ammunition from Mariston’s belt and then turned his attention to the remaining figures. 
He felt the strength and the personality and the hard, unquestioned identity of himself as Henderson James, human being, drain out of him, as if someone had cut the puppet string and he, the puppet, had slumped supine upon the stage. 
So that was why he had been able to surprise the puudly! 
Seeing that he was discovered, the old man wrinkled his face into a toothless grin of conciliation.
There were two Henderson Jameses. The puudly had been in contact with one of them, the original, the real Henderson James, had known every move he made, had known that it was safe so far as that Henderson James might be concerned. It had not known of the second Henderson James that had stalked it through the night.
Henderson James, duplicate.
Henderson James, temporary. 
Henderson James, here tonight, gone tomorrow.
For they would not let him live. The original Henderson James would not allow him to continue living, and even if he did, the world would not allow it. Duplicates were made only for very temporary and very special reasons and it was al- ways understood that once their purpose was accomplished they would be done away with. 
Done away with . . . those were the words exactly. Gotten out of the way. Swept out of sight and mind. Killed as unconcernedly and emotionlessly as one chops off a chicken’s head. 
He walked forward and dropped on one knee beside the puudly, running his hand over its body in the darkness. Lumps stood out all over it, the swelling buds that now would never break to spew forth in a loathsome birth a brood of puudly pups. 
He rose to his feet. 
The job was done. The puudly had been killed—killed before it had given birth to a horde of horrors. 
The job was done and he could go home. 
Home? 
Of course, that was the thing that had been planted in his mind, the thing they wanted him to do. To go home, to go back to the house on Summit avenue, where his executioners would wait, to walk back deliberately and unsuspectingly to the death that waited.
Home?
That would be the sane thing to do. He knew he was sane, because he could rationalize normally. 
But he couldn’t move. He couldn’t keep his mouth shut. Some crazy superstitious awe drove him on, the pallid features still held no expression. One dead white hand, the strap mark glaring red about the wrist, waved Haynes to silence.
Home?
"No, I walked — for exercise." 
Her mother heard no sarcasm. "It's a nice night out," she said. "I just came in myself. I went to the White Sale at Barney's and then dropped in at the Majestic — Dorothy Danby in 'Other men's Wives,' you know. It wasn't very good-not worth a quarter." 
Fliss must have had a swift vision of the women who did not go to see Dorothy Danby — of Mrs. Warner dealing at long range with her dinner parties. Her face was dark and bitter. 
"I hate this not being anybody — ^why aren't we somebody?" she broke out. 
Her mother looked daunted. "I'm sure you go everywhere you want to — going to stay at the Spragues' tomorrow night, out all this afternoon, and there's that swell dance at the Mortons' next week — I think you have a good time. It's not my fault your father hasn't more money." 
"It's nobody's fault — nothing is. But that doesn't make it easier. A girl can't do it all alone — she needs houses, automobiles, if she is to get anywhere." She stopped and looked at the stupid figure in front of her, which could not seem to understand its own failure as a mother. "It's just that I'm tired and I think I'm getting a cold and it's so damn lonesome with all the girls away. That musicale was the deadest thing you ever saw." 
She went to the kitchen and watched the chops sizzling, drearily, but none the less with a certain interest. After all, the walk home had been exercise. 
Home?
“Not in here?" 
"No, I slept in the back room. Can you make yourself comfortable?" 
Well, I’m frightened." 
The job was done and his usefulness was over. He had been created to perform a certain task and the task was now performed and while an hour ago he had been a factor in the plans of men, he was no longer wanted. He was an embarrassment and superfluous. 
Now wait a minute, he told himself. You may not be a duplicate. You do not feel like one.
Home?
But, once in his big car he did not take her home, a matter of a dozen blocks. Instead he turned to the road which circled the boulevards. 
"Hush," he said, at her protest. "I told Dick that you were too tired to dance and that I was going to take you for a ride. It's all fixed. Til be back there long before Fliss is ready to go. And I've not had a chance to talk to you for ages." 
But they did not talk much. They watched the city below them, spreading so big, a thousand lights coming from places of comedy and tragedy all intermingled. Once she roused herself out of her relaxation to tell him how peaceful she felt. He merely nodded. 
High over the city he stopped on the very crest of the hills and shut off the motor. The place was black and silent and isolated. Stars hung close and the city looked small and remote. 
"How infinitesimal it all is— all the fuss down there," said Cecily. 
"Of course you'd feel that," said Matthew, lighting a cigarette. "That's why I brought you up. It'll do you good. You mustn't let things as small as that eat you up, Cecily." 
"What do you mean?" 
"Don't let things bother you. Nothing matters an awful lot." 
"Life matters. So Mother Fenelon said once." 
"Perhaps it does — ^perhaps she's right. But only in the large. Certainly little habits of life don't." 
"It's easy to feel that way up here, but down in the midst of those lights you can't get the sweep of things. Little things irritate — ^habits of life do matter." 
"You ought to get away by yourself more. When I feel irritated I go up to my rooms and read what a lot of my betters, long dead, had to say and had to think" 
"Can't be done by the mother of three." 
Home?
"That's what people will say," answered Cecily, "but of course that's just a symptom of what's the matter with us. The trouble is that we don't think marriage means the same thing; we don't mean the same thing by it And every outward expression of my idea jars on him— and his on me. We've become angry and furtive and quarrelsome and condemning." 
 That was true. He felt like Henderson James. He was Henderson James. He lived on Summit avenue and had illegally brought to Earth a beast known as a puudly in order that he might study it and talk to it and test its alien reactions, attempt to measure its intelligence and guess at the strength and depth and the direction of its non-humanity. He had been a fool, of course, to do it, and yet at the time it had seemed important to understand the deadly, alien mentality. 
He knew instinctively that the thing must be one of the Alpha Centaurians, for in its alien grotesqueness the figure was utterly dissimilar to anything ever seen upon Earth before.
I am human, he said, and that was right, but even so the fact meant nothing. Of course he was human. Henderson James was human and his duplicate would be exactly as human as the original. For the duplicate, processed from the pattern that held every trait and characteristic of the man he was to become a copy of, would differ in not a single basic factor. 


CH. 5

In not a single basic factor, perhaps, but in certain other things. For no matter how much the duplicate might be like his pattern, no matter how full-limbed he might spring from his creation, he still would be a new man. He would have the capacity for knowledge and for thought and in a little time he -would have and know and be all the things that his original was... 
It was death.

Wife and Husband had dropped to their knees, while daughter and son-duplicates were hidden in Wife’s robe. 

But now he was utterly, utterly, completely alone. On all this planet, there was not one soul who loved, respected or trusted him, not even the orphaned Crescenzi children, who had taken to running and hiding from him when he came near. 
"They are the perfect couples whom I combed the world to find," said the scientist. "From their eugenic marriages sprang the first children that passed through the laboratory. I had hoped," he hesitated and looked sideways at Northwood, "I had dreamed of having the children of you and Athalia to help strengthen the New Race."
Dennison’s face mirrored the burning soul within him—the soul of a man, there in a child’s little body,  the butterfly-soul of tomorrow and the snake-soul of the years to come, but not my soul. 
Nicholas shivered. "My soul, is it? My immortal soul?"
Only a man ripened and seasoned with the passing of years could have stood there before us and uttered, so quietly and solemnly, words such as had just come from his lips. Only in his eyes could we catch a glimpse of the torment which gripped his soul.
But in his heart, he was tormented with doubt for Diane's safety.... 
A frown creased his brow. It was best not to puzzle over that question. Best just to go ahead, and keep going.
He rushed to the stairs and whistled. There was an answering yelp from above and the pad of uncertain paws on the bare wooden steps. A dejected
old beagle blundered into the room, dragging a crippled hind leg as he fawned upon his master, who stretched forth a hand to pat the unsteady head.
"Did you hear any dogs barking up there last night?" he asked. "Any queer barking?" 
"You see, Bowman and I chose these hills for our zoological research station mainly because we'd have plenty of room and yet be more or less secluded from curiosity-seekers. We had our building put up back on one of these hills almost two years ago. Our work is research into animal intelligence, defining its factors, measuring its limits, testing capacity to learn, and the like. We've worked with dogs, police-dogs, as the most accessible and easily handled of animal subjects.
Brown eyes flashing in helpless fury : brown hair falling about his face, covered with beard stubble. An animal at bay, snarling impotently before the hunter's gun! Worse — he was a gunman without a gun. For in Doody's right hand, that had so often clasped the rubber grip of a .38 was a black sock!
Doody seconded the motion made by Mr, i'iarkham. Mr. Hart said he would be in favor of a separate licensing authority, as long as the letter specified that the Board is not unanimously in favor of a separate licensing authority. Mr, Lannan was opposed to this motion stating that he would not interfere with the Charter Commission nor that did they have any business in this matter. Mr, Lannan felt that Town Counsel's opinion was sufficient. A vote was taken with Mr. Hart, Mr, Markham and Mr, Doody in favor and Mr, Lannan opposing.’ The vote stood at 3 for and 1 against, The minutes of July 2Uth, 1972 were accepted with a motion by Mr, Hart, seconded by Mr. Doody. Ihe minutes of July 25th, 1972, were accepted with a motion by Mr, Hart, Seconded by Mr, Doody, The minutes of August 7th, 1972, and August 10th, 1972, were requested by the members to be held, and not voted on at this meeting. Mr. Doody then made the statement that he does not plan to be a candidate for re-election to the Board of Selectmen in March of 1973* His reasons were that the work load is increasing, his family demands are increasing, and other personal reasons he will not be a candidate. This will conclude ten years of service. Regular meeting of the Board of Selectmen: held September 11th, 1972 at 7 :30P.M Members present were Mr. Lannan, Chairman, Mr. Doody, Hart, Mr. Humphrey, and Mr. Markham. Mr. Lannan, presided. 
Members of the press who attended the meeting were: 
Chelmsford Sentinel: Mr. Jerry House Chelmsford Wewsweekly: Mrs. Ann Marie Kierce Lowell Sun: Mr. Gus Webster Mr. Humphrey asked if building permit had been issued, and the answer was it had and that the plumbing work has already been started. Mr. Doody then referred to Mr. Kahn’s letter and the negotiations that went back as far as 1971. Mr. Humphrey stated there was no other license in question, and therefore no reason for the transfer not to be approved. Mr. Doody stated the question before was that there were two applications that applied at the same time one was for a re- location and one for a new license, but being the Harrington re-location had been discussed since 1971, he had no objection. Mr. Balco asked if the town, with its own resources, repair the dam, and if not how would the Conservation Commission go about this. He- also stated that there is a drainage problem in the reservation; there is a crack in a pipe which is causing erosion. Mr. Doody asked if it would be possible to break the pipe and re-route it, Mr. Doody stated that he had a call from the Recreation Commission asking for help in moving their equipment to the "West Chelmsford Fire Station, and that they would like to speak with the Supt. of Streets. A letter was suggested to be forwarded to the Highway Department regarding this subject. Mr, Doody also ’stated that the Bond issue regarding the new High School will be the subject that will be discussed at the next regular board meeting, and a full report will be given at that time. 
The subject of the Share project and the use of the Middlesex Training School as. a halfway house was discussed. Mr. Doody stated he had no objection to this, but Share must inform the Townspeople and the Board of their plans first. A report will be given involving this subject at the next Board meeting. Mr. Doody seconded the motion. Mr. Lannan stated that this has been the practice of the Board of Selectmen to allow package stores to remain open. Mr. Markham requested a letter be sent to Mr. Doherty wishing him success in his new endeavor. Mr. Doody, seconded the motion. Mr. Doody presented the recommendations of the Capital Budget Committee in regard to the bond for the new high school. He said he would not read the minutes of the meeting as he was sure the Selectmen had already read them. 
He stated that the Capital Budget Committee had taken into consideration the amount of the bond the capital flow requirements and the term of the bond. The Committee recommended that the Town float an $8.5 million bond immediately and discuss floating the additional $1,740,000 voted in October of 1973 if it is needed and would be taken out in short term bonds. The Capital Budget Committee recommended a 10 year term for the original $8.5 million. The Capital Budget Committee also recommended that a portion of the $8.5 million be invested during the time it was not needed. The amount for the fiscal year would be in the vicinity of $200,000. They further recommended that this amount be used to reduce the taxes to be voted at the next Town Meeting. Selectman Doody moved that the Treasurer be directed to float $8.5 million bond for 10 years. Mr. Hart seconded the motion. Mr. Markham was in agreement but asked what the rate increase had been between the time the Selectmen met on the issue and September 8, 1972, and what it would be when the bonds were floated. Selectman Doody said that Mr. Guinan of the State Street Bank and Trust said there are too many variables to be able to commit himself to a rate. He did feel the rate would remain about the same. On August 21st, it had been 4.57o and September 8th, 4.77o. Selectman Humphrey commended the Capital Budget Committee of their research. He said that never during his term on the Board had such action been taken. This shows what a Capital Budget Committee can do and urged them to continue their work. Mr. Lannan asked the Board members if they would like the Capital Budget Committee to investigate the investment of the unused money to reduce taxes. Selectman Humphrey suggested Town Counsel be included to see if it were legal. The Board agreed to allow the Capital Budget Committee use of Town Counsel. 
Selectman Doody advised the Board that he had no information to give them on Share's plans to use the Middlesex Training School building. Mr. Doody recommended the Board write to Dr. Paul Strudler and ask that he and Mrs. Ann Stratos, Chelmsford's representative to Share, meet with the Board to discuss what Share's plans were for the Middlesex County Training School. Mr, Doody said the problem has been on Mr. Doody seconded. Mr. Doody stated that they were adding offices in the Town Hall and creating a fire hazard. Mr. Doody, agreed to advertise for a public hearing Mr, Doody told the Board that the Capital Budget Committee did not have sufficient time to study the various proposals and to make definite recommendations, Mr. Doody then stated being that the Town would be faced with an 18 month budget Mr. Doody discussed the meeting last Saturday.
"Well, our experiments are perfectly comprehensible and normal, but the natives around here prefer to believe that we are engaged in some hideous kind of canine research — just because we won't let them ramble through our place at will! They've spread rumors of all kinds of strange dogs or dog-like beasts seen or heard around our place at night, and every stray dog that yelps back in these hills is set down as more evidence of our unholy activities." 
"So that's what Farliss meant when he asked me if I'd heard any queer barking." I said, and Dwann nodded.
"Yes, since vour cottage is on the hill next to our hill, and you’d be in a better position to hear what we were up to. 

The trail was growing eery, now, and precipitous. To their right rose a sheer cliff. To their left, the path fell off abruptly to a gigantic caldron where red flames leaped and waned.
Things no more than a foot or two in length, to judge from the slender, eel-like bodies that leaped into the air, but things with catfish heads and tentacles, and eyes waving on stalks; things with clawlike appendages to their ventral fins, and mouths that widened to fearful size, so that the whole head seemed to disappear above them, disclosing fangs like wolves'. Instantly the water was churned into phosphorescent fire as they precipitated themselves upon the struggling mantis, whose enormous form, extending halfway from shore to shore, was covered with the river monsters, gnawing, rending, tearing.
With trembling fingers he opened Tom's shirt and listened for his heartbeats. Panic-stricken, he rubbed the young man's wrists, slapped his cheeks, and ran for water to dash in his face. But all efforts to revive him proved futile, and then, in awful fear, Old Crompton dashed into the night, the dog Spot snapping at his heels as he ran.
"Adams hollered, 'Oh, my God!' and we ran from the porch down the street past a man who acted as if he was going to stop us, and I fired a shot into the ground to scare him. We then continued to where Hyland was sitting in the car, jumped in and started away at a seventy-mile clip all the way to Chrystophcr.
The path made a right-angled turn and Nankivell paused in amazement. Before him was a huge cavern, well lighted by the phosphorescent glow from the walls. It was fully a hundred yards wide while it stretched out before him for fully thrice that distance. The roof rose in a vaulted arch to a height of sixty feet. It was not the dimensions of the cavern which struck Nankivell dumb with astonishment; it was the objects ranged in orderly rows down the length of the hall which made him rub his eyes and wonder whether he was awake. 
The objects were cylinders of a transparent substance, some thirty inches in diameter and seven feet tall, standing on end. In each cylinder, its every detail showing through the crystalline walls, was a human form. Nankivell approached on tiptoe as though fearing to arouse the sleepers. 
He paused at the first one. In it was the figure of a man of middle age, tall and symmetrically formed, although the limbs were heavy and rather coarse. The skin was a dusky olive in tinge and the curling hair which hung in luxurious profusion from the head and which sprang from the face in a heavy beard, was jet-black in hue. The eyes were closed and there was not the slightest trace of color in the lips or eyelids. The whole face, under the dusky olive tint, seemed livid and lifeless. The sleepers thrashed and turned, as though they fought with sleep, and as they slept, many of them talked or muttered or screamed aloud; they lived other lives in their dreams, intensely compressed lives dreamed quickly, for soon it would be dawn, and once more they would be thrust into hell.


CH. 6

"The only possible answer to that," he said suavely, "is to tell you to go to hell. Get out! But Von Holtz stays here. He'd better!"
Captain Hegg ground his heel deep into the prostrate man’s side just once before he realized who he was and what he was doing. He reeled away, then turned back to shout to the other two men. They did not hear him and kept on grimily at what they were doing. Pulling at them did no good either so he had to stop Arkady with a paralyzing judo blow and drag the little professor over to his bunk and hold him there until he stopped struggling. The resources were abundant, bountiful. Yet the two men seemed little interested, and appeared content to live off the stores within the liferaft. They devoted almost all their time, except that little for bringing up firewood and trapping game, to fiddling with that gadget they called a warp motor. They were trying to hook it up to the radio sets, they said. His voice trailed off for a bit. Then, "Excuse me, Willard, but wasn’t there a girl once? A Miss Arkady?” Farquar’s ungainly figure froze. He nodded curtly, face averted. "And didn’t she go off with a Thinker?” "If girls find me ugly, that’s their business," Farquar said harshly, still not looking at Opperly. "What’s that got to do with this invitation?”
The feeling and sound of the contact gave him a peculiar start. On the farther end of the table stood a letter-box--an invitation. From his pocket Quest snatched a slip of paper, and wrote:

DOOM LAUNCH ADRIFT ON LAKE

Physician Baffled by Condition of Five Bodies Found in Craft Blighted Area on Shore Said to Have Bearing on Tragedy

 THAW HARBOR, IND., June 6.--Five Chicago sportsmen, most of them prominent in business and society, perished in the early hours this morning while returning in the launch of A. Gaston Andrews from a weekend camping party near Hook Spit on the Michigan shore.
 The boat was towed into this port at daybreak by the Interlake Tug Mordecai after being found adrift less than a mile off shore. According to Captain Goff of the Mordecai the death craft carried no lights and he barely avoided running her down. The weather along the Indiana shore was perfect throughout the night and there is nothing to indicate that the launch was in trouble at any time. The bodies are unmarked, and this little community is agog with rumors ranging all the way from murder and suicide to the supernatural.
“Nuts. We’re going down.” Kelly touched the controls and the freighter began to descend into the interdicted area. 
At 2:30 A.M. there came a change. The dull-red radiance which swept the city changed in color. Through the shades of the spectrum it swung up to violet. And no longer was it a blast of cold, but of heat! Of what inherent temperature the ray of that spreading beam may have been, no one can say. It caught the houses, and everything inflammable burst into flame. Conflagrations were everywhere—a thousand spots of yellow-red flames, like torches, with smoke rolling up from them to mingle with the violet glow overhead.
The blizzard was gone. The snow ceased. The storm clouds rolled away, blasted by the pendulum winds which lashed the city.
By 3 A.M. the city temperature was over 100° F—the dry, blistering heat of a midsummer desert. The northern city streets were littered with the bodies of people who had rushed from their homes and fallen in the heat, the wild winds and the suffocating smoke outside.
	Bell was falling head-first when the 'chute opened, and the jerk was terrific, the more so as he had counted not the customary ten, but fifteen before pulling out the ring. But very suddenly he seemed to be floating down with an amazing gentleness, with the ruddy blossom of a parachute swaying against a background of lustrous stars very far indeed over his head. Below him were masses of smoke and at least one huge dancing mass of flame, where the storage tank for airplane gas had exploded. It was unlikely in the extreme, he saw now, that anyone under that canopy of smoke could look up to see plane or parachute against the sky.
 Dr. J. M. Addis of Thaw Harbor, the first physician to examine the bodies, says that they appear to have suffered some violent electro- chemical action the nature of which cannot be determined at the moment. This statement is considered significant in view of the reported discovery ashore of a large blighted area almost directly opposite the point where the launch was found. Joseph Sleichert, a farmer who lives in that vicinity, reports that this patch of ground extending back from the lakeshore was completely stripped of vegetation overnight. He ascribes the damage to some unknown insect pest. Others say that the condition of the ground indicates that it has been burned at incinerator temperatures. Nothing is left of the soil but a blue powder.
General Breckinridge's face was taut with strain. His thin hands moved jerkily. "So that's it!" he whispered hoarsely. "So that's how one human fiend can blight two peaceful planets, is it!" He was breathing hard, like a man who has run a long way. His eyes were like grey chips of steel. Slowly he turned to his aide. "Well, Captain, if that's the kind of war he wants, that's the kind of merciless savagery he'll get. Earth has seen other invaders, too, but Earth always has managed to survive them."
Slavatsky made a move toward the light, and Carnes' gun roared deafeningly in the confined space. The heavy bullet smashed into the wall an inch from the dwarf's hand and he started back.
Jake moved. Yet as he moved he knew. He was going to die. It would be a shot from the window . . . or it would be later . . . somewhere . . . when Charlie pulled the trigger on his gun! It had to be sometime. . . . 
The dog growled continuously from his position at the head of his master, but did not move to interfere with the intruder. And Old Crompton, in the excitement of the momentous experience, paid him not the slightest attention.
"Ha! Ha!" cackled George, without mirth. "A month! We're doggoned lucky if we get to the bottom of this in a year."
"Nonsense!" snapped Hart, who was considerably upset by the failure to locate the source of the disastrous rays. "There is nothing supernatural about this, and anything that can be explained on a scientific basis can be run to earth in short order. These rays are man-made and, as such, can be accounted for by man. Our greatest scientists must be put to work on the problem at once--in fact, they have quite probably been called in by the government already."
“All is ready, Brother Nankivell,” went on the Warder. “We will go forward at once. We must attack in the open as the Guardians are too large to be hidden. Now may the Great Architect bless us and aid us in our efforts!” 
“So mote it be!” ejaculated Nankivell fervently. 
At a word from the Warder, the advance began. From the jungle a cloud of Indian scouts emerged and made their way in scattered formation across the fields. When they had gone a hundred yards, the main body of cowans followed them in long lines, fifty yards apart. In the intervals between lines came the packs of Guardians. The dinosaurs, maintained alive for untold ages and bred into their present form by the genius of the nobles of Troyana, hunted in packs of threes. With each pack were a half dozen cowans who guided the huge beasts as one would guide a well trained hunting dog. As the main body debouched from cover and took up the march, Gedaliah followed, Nankivell at his side. 
They had gone a quarter of a mile before any sign came from the city. Then from the dormitories a swarm of cowans emerged and advanced toward them. 
“I hope they are loyal,” murmured Gedaliah. “If not, they will detect our scouts and our plans will go awry.” 
He swallowed the sweat from his lips. He caught a glimpse of the dark concrete below. 
The blast tore at their plane. And the cold in their tight compartment was like the cold of outer space. The men stared, speechless, panting.Their breath froze in that frigid room into steam clouds.
Through his mind went a picture of Jean . . . the memory of her hair ... he saw the four aces again ... he remembered a trip to Coney Island. . . . 
This is what you think when you die, he told himself crazily. But when you die, it hurts just the same . . . one way or the other . . . If I die now, it won't hurt anymore . . . 
Then a bullet sang past his head. The gun blast followed, thundering from above him. One more time, he realized. . . .
Nothing that could be done! Dick found himself caught once more in the human torrent. Presently he was wedged up against a broken window. He precipitated himself through the frame, dropped to the ground, stopped for an instant to catch breath.
"Kill the swine! Shoot! Shoot!" Dick heard one of his assailants muttering."I wish to give myself up for murder," answered the amazing visitor, slowly and with decision, "for a murder committed twelve years ago. I should like you to listen to my story first, though. It has been kept too long."
"Surely," replied the girl. "I am Elaine Linane."
There were three more pig carcasses in the clearing; the prisoners must have worked like demons to get the animals driven off the research area while most of us were at lunch. The security guard hadn’t noticed a thing — no doubt because the security guard, relaxed and happy with the sure knowledge that nobody would ever bother a place like Project 

Mako, was sound asleep under a palm.

She supposed the things that were happening meant that she was going to have a baby and she was frightened. So she could not tell Dick. She felt terribly ashamed of her own fears. They had talked about it and it had seemed very beautiful and fine in talking. Now when it had to be done — done by her, through her, with these strange processes diagrammed in encyclopedias — it was different. It was very different. It seemed to cut her off from Dick instead of bringing her closer — it absorbed her thoughts. And with the fears went this strange weakness and dizziness, so foreign to her. That was why she had gone to the convent. And there the little white chapel had seemed to ring with the words of the Jesuit priest in his last instruction, "the sacrament which has for its purpose the bringing up of children." Cecily's whole soul seemed to rebel. Marriage was not that. Marriage was Dick — ^Dick to play with, talk with — Dick to make a home for — Dick to love. This other business was not Dick. The chapel helped her not at all.
A half an hour passed so; maybe an hour: I had no means of telling. I was weak from pain and loss of blood, and slightly delirious.
"Hello, Delia," I gasped weakly. "How did I get here?"
Delia had both hands on my shoulders, was pushing me down. "Whoa, baby, whoa. That's just as clear as a darkness-rayed area. Count up to ten, and start all over again."
"Yes. Not altogether cheerful. But we won't be trying to get out. No use of that." He looked at me suddenly, grinning again. "Say, Delia, why not try for that shining mountain we saw? It looks queer enough to be interesting. We ought to make it in a week."

CH. 7

"No one knows what unrevealed horrors space holds and the world will never rest entirely easy until the slow process of time again heals the protective layer."

--From "Beyond the Heaviside Layer."

Over a year has passed since I wrote those lines. When they were written the hole which Delia Carpenter had burned with his battery of infra-red lamps through the heaviside layer, that hollow sphere of invisible semi-plastic organic matter which encloses the world as a nutshell does a kernel, was gradually filling in as he had predicted it would: every one thought that in another ten years the world would be safely enclosed again in its protective layer as it had been since the dawn of time. There were some adventurous spirits who deplored this fact, as it would effectually bar interplanetary travel, for Hadley had proved with his life that no space flyer could force its way through the fifty miles of almost solid material which barred the road to space, but they were in the minority. Most of humanity felt that it would rather be protected against the denizens of space than to have a road open for them to travel to the moon if they felt inclined.
Larry recovered consciousness in the back yard of the house on Patton Place probably only a moment or two after Mary and I had been snatched away in the Time-traveling cage. He found himself bruised and battered, but apparently without injuries. He got to his feet, weak and shaken. His head was roaring.
Mother Fenelon, meeting her as she had done before, had helped. She had stopped and kissed Cecily swiftly on each cheek and asked about Dick and her mother. Mother Fenelon had a way of reconciling the worldly and the divine. Then she looked at Cecily very steadily and asked, "Still afraid, Cecily?" 
"I hate it," cried Cecily suddenly, with a passion quite unlike her. "I hate the way people are living. I can't make it out — anything out. If the principle they taught me that marriage is an institution for the home, for the bringing up of children is right, then all this — ^this fun — is wrong. You can't have what they call 'fun' and be a good woman. You can't play at making love with all this dancing that is only embracing — ^with all this loose talk — and keep your feding for your husband or wife clean. And if you don't you're stupid or a bore — out of date. I know what people think of me. women have ac- tually told me that I'm foolish to have three children ; that I shouldn't let my household submerge me ; that Dick is bound to crave 'fun'! He does like it ; he's happier when we are going out places all the time; he makes himself cheap with these silly women ; he uses the words he used to me when he talks to them — oh, that seems trivial, doesn't it?" 
"No, no, not trivial! Don't talk any more, Cecily. You'll regret it if you do.” 
"Don't," pleaded Carruthers, looking up from his pad of figures. "We're trying to solve the mystery underlying the forces which we have created." He replaced the test tube within the center of the square and returned to the atomic machine.
And this that she heard, with what she knew already, and with what subsequently transpired, enables me now to piece together the facts into a connected explanation.
She stood cringing in his grasp. Spawn had never used physical violence with Jetta. But he was white with fury now. But the beady eyes saw that the young man was truthful. Sudden fury assailed the monarch of the East. A bell pealed its mellow summons and three Moon men entered the Presence.
It seemed to me that the creature was weakening. With redoubled fury I hacked at the fathery shape. And gradually, when it seemed as though I could not withstand its weight and crushing tentacles another second, it slipped away and floated off on the shallow, roaring rapids.
"Yes, I have heard of you," said the girl. "It is strange, the way we met. My father admires your work, but I am afraid you are not great friends." The girl had forgotten her troubles. She chuckled. She had heard the way Jenks had "sounded" her father out.
Doc Chimp and Pertin raced for the cocoons. The warning had cauglit, others short. The corridors were full of low-G beings hurrying back to safety before the fusion rockets began again. The Boaty Bits arrowed along at top velocity, like a cartoon drawing of a swarm of wasps. An octopoidal creature launched itself from a wall off the end of the corridor with a multiple thrust of its legs and spun away, tentacles waving crazily. There was a thundering roar and three She- liaks raced off, then another three and another, in V formations. A being like a six-legged father monkey bounced back and forth,
There were no niceties to that combat. It was a matter of life and death, and each knew it. But his lips were sealed. He would not divulge how much he had succeeded in passing on to the Slavs.
"We'll talk again, Haljan. You interest me--I've enjoyed it."
	Dr. Mundson sighed. "If I were perfect, I should cease to be so overwhelmingly conscious of the importance of perfection." He settled back to enjoyment of the Life Ray.
He sauntered away from me, joining the saturnine Ob Hahn, with whom presently I heard him discussing religion.
But Thurston shook his head. "Their speed," he said, "and the gas! Remember that cold. How much of it can they lay over a city?"
 The arrest of Johnson had caused considerable comment among the passengers. A few had seen me drag him forward to the cage. The incident had been the subject of passenger discussion all afternoon. Captain Carter had posted a notice to the effect that Johnson's accounts had been found in serious error, and that Dr. Frank for this voyage would act in his stead.
In "Vampires of Venus" the plot was rather weak. Even if the Venerians knew nothing of entomology, they should have brains enough to get rid of the vampires the way Leslie Larner did without having to call an Earthman to help them. Another thing: the Venerians kept only insects that were not harmful to the crops. On Earth there are such insects who help the farmer by eating harmful insects. If the harmful insects were exterminated--an almost impossible and gigantic task--the harmless insects would change their diet and become harmful too. And it seems funny, too, that such a highly civilized planet as Venus should still depend on domesticated animals for food, drink and clothing instead of manufacturing what they need synthetically.
There was a little slapping noise. Bell became suddenly aware of a horde of insects swarming around him. Smoke served partially to drive them off.
"Look here," he said suddenly, "we could unfold a parachute and cover the cockpits for some protection against these infernal things that are biting me."
"We may need the parachute," said Paula unsteadily. "Does--does that smoke of yours drive them away?"
"A little." Bell hesitated. "I say, it would be crowded, but if I came up there, or you here...."
"I--I'll come back there," she said queerly. "The extra cans of gasoline here...."
She slipped over the partition, in the odd flying suit which looks so much more odd when a girl wears it. She settled down beside him, and he tried painstakingly to envelope her in a cloud of tobacco smoke. The plague of insects lessened.
"We had many gases," he told McGuire, "but we used them for good ends. You people of Earth--or these invaders, if they conquer Earth--must some day engage in a war more terrible than wars between men. The insects are your greatest foe. With a developing civilization goes the multiplication of insect and bacterial life. We used the gases for that war, and we made this world a heaven." He sighed regretfully for his lost world.
And George Voight slipped into a stiff-backed chair with a sigh of relief. For he knew the judge from the old days and he was now certain that his case would be disposed of very quickly.
	"Possibly I have an idea," replied Dr. Bird with a cryptic smile. "My advice to you, Carnes, is to keep away from the local authorities as much as possible. I want to be present when Winston and Trier are questioned and I may possibly wish to ask a few questions myself. Use your authority that far, but no farther. Don't volunteer any information and especially don't let my name get out. We'll drop the counterfeiting case we were summoned here on for the present and look into this a little on our own hook. I will want your aid, so don't get tied up with the police."
     The April cover on your magazine was wonderful.
Finally, he blurted it. “Bob, there are no insects!” 
“What have insects — ” 
“You know what I mean,” he said. “You go out on Earth or any Earthlike planet and lie down in the grass and watch. You’ll see the insects. Some of them on the ground and others on the grass. There’ll be all kinds of them.” 
I could, of course. And I did. But a man's memory does not improve in the course of a century of Earth years. Our scientists have not been able to keep a man's brain as fresh as his body, despite all their vaunted progress. There is a lot these deep thinkers, in their great laboratories, don't know. The whole universe gives them the credit for what's been done, yet the men of action who carried out the ideas--but I'm getting away from my pert young officer.
"No use both of us covering the same ground — there's plenty for each of us to do, and then some. You go on to the bank and have Snedeker let you examine that vault, as you suggested, and pick up anything more you can about the way the body of Smith looked when they found it. I don't suppose any of 'em had the brains to take a flashlight of the vault interior before they disturbed the lay-out. That's what comes of keeping the newspaper boys out of it! If they had been let in on it from the jump-off we wouldn't have to be depending upon the alleged memories of a lot of incompetent witnesses who have probably forgotten most of what they did see and imagine a lot that never was, they'd have a detailed and exact description by someone who knew how to see and what to look for. This hush stunt makes me tired."
“Are all of the inhabitants of Mars like that?” he asked with a grimace. 
“Mars has now but few inhabitants,” came the soundless answer. “Besides the types that you have seen, there are only the monsters that inhabit the dark patches: the dead sea bottoms. They are the descendants of former sea serpents. At one time the planet had a population as varied as any of the others but it is a much older planet and it has cooled off to such an extent that it is now habitable only to the hardiest of creatures. We believe that the interior has cooled entirely. This would account for the loss of atmosphere for the moisture sinking into the lithosphere would become congealed. As the percentage of oxygen obtained from the ether is negligible, the percentage in the atmosphere would necessarily diminish. The sun keeps the moisture on the surface from congealing, except at the poles in winter, but, with no internal heat, there is a constant loss. As birds of the eagle or vulture type are best suited to live in a rarefied atmosphere, only those creatures who acquired some of their characteristics were able to survive. The small fish in the streams are the only exception.” 
McGuire turned a ludicrously woe-begone face to the guide. 
“Then there are no inhabitants of our type on the planet?” he asked, shaking his head dolefully. “How about the other planets? Do you know as much about them?” 
 “And there aren’t any here?” He shook his head. “None that I could see. I wandered around and lay down and looked in a dozen different places. Stands to reason a man should find some insects if he looked all morning. It isn’t natural. Bob.” 
T KEPT on with my canvas and I don’t know why it was, but I got a little chilled about there not being any insects. Not that I care a hoot for insects, but as Kemper said, it was un- natural, although you come to expect the so-called unnatural in this planet-checking business. “There are the bees,” I said. “What bees?”
Sirs: 
Give Robert Moore Williams credit for my first letter to any magazine. An author like Williams certainly deserves it. He really outdid himself when he wrote "The Bees of Death" in the October issue. 
And I most certainly must add that Rog Phillips is maintaining his good reputation with "Planet of the Dead". I place that yarn among the "bests". 
Also, I'd like to congratulate you on the way you handle the Reader's Page. It's bringing your fans closer together, in a friendly, chatty group. 
So far in FA I haven't seen much praise given to the short factual articles, so I'm going on record saying that I enjoy them immensely. 
Here's to future issues! 
Howard Blind
“The ones that are in the critters. Didn’t you see any?” 
“None,” he said. “I didn’t get close to any critter herds. Maybe the bees don’t travel very far.” “Any birds?” 
Suddenly afraid for her, afraid of tears, he rushed into the other bedroom. Delia followed him, leaving Esther babbling merrily to Frosty the polar bear.
"I didn't get to the women's wing at the jail. I--" Pulcher stood up, oddly flustered. "Say, I'd better run along, Charley. This bondsman, he's open now? Well--" He stopped babbling and left.

"That's because you're a cold distant, unsympathetic type,' Kelly said, with a complacent smile. "Me he told everything. He applied to Luna every year. Studied all the textbooks on military organization, land tactics, sea tactics, space strategy, histories of warfare. Crammed his cabin with that junk. Knew it inside out.  Fantastic memory!" 
"Why didn't he get in?" 

"Hemophilia. He couldn't pass the physical. He thought they were plotting against him. Still, I'm grateful for the chance at a little astrogation." With the barest hint of a smile, Kelly said, "I understand it's possible to bring a ship sidewise through the Slot 
By then, the train had arrived  at the station. The doors were unsealed, allowing the commuters to 
leave for their jobs. Thrang watched the zipper salesman depart, then hurried into the crowd. In a moment, he found a tall man wearing a slouch hat and dark glasses. On his lapel was a silver badge which read Secret Police at Terra." 
GET READY NOW FOR A GREAT VICTORY FUTURE 
War has created tremendous opportunities for men in RADIO OPERATING AND ELECTRONICS. Here is the practical "Learn- by- Doing" shop training in this big field. Not by correspondence, but actual experience on real Radio and Electronic apparatus.  talking pictures START NOW-PAY LATER! 
I make it easy for you to come to Chicago for my practical training. Don't let lack of money hold you  back! You can pay tuition AFTER YOU GRADUATE. 
I'll even help you secure part-time work while at Coyne to help pay living expenses. My plan has aided thousands — coupon brings complete  details.
Prepares for Gov't License 
Many of the better Radio jobs require U. S. Govt, license. Coyne has prepared hundreds of men for this test. Our graduates hold good positions in broadcast stations, air transport, police radio and motion picture studios. 
You'll Receive Personal Instructions on Fascinating Radio and Electronic Apparatus 
It's the thrill of a lifetime when you first operate the amazing variety of up-to-the-minute Radio and Electronic equipment at Coyne! Experts show you each step, train you thoroughly. You'll learn to send Code rapidly — do actual trouble-shooting oo Television, short-wave and electronic devices. With this training you get my LIFETIME EMPLOYMENT SERVICE. 
I train you for a real job, then help you get it!
H. C. LEWIS, President
“Neat, eh?” said Killion, smiling, standing beside me as nonchalantly as he had stood beside me at Belem, ages ago it now seemed.
“Off-limits to Lunarites, too?” 
“Oh, no. Nothing of the sort. Most of its staff are Lunarites. But the Terrestrial government sets the 
rules. No tourists.” 
“I’d love to see it,” he said. 
She said, “I’m sure you would. You’ve brought me luck — not one item of food, not one blessed man or woman, has hit the floor.”
He tried grass and chucked it up. He observed birds and tried their diet. The seeds were tiny and the insects nasty. He had little understanding of basic life-support systems. Education in Harmonious was designed to this end. With no options available, the Right Way was the only way for the populace. Even a restricted life was preferable to the only known alternative.
I believe the greatest enemy Christianity faces today is that which Jesus Christ referred to in His warning, “Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees .” I hope to show that the religion he warned his disciples about is alive and well today, and that in fact it has been joined to Christianity in the most unusual of unions, forming what is known as Judeo-Christianity.
Shapes of beasts and birds were 
carved into it. No man — nor nain 
— nor perry — had devised it. It was wizards’ work, and wizardry of witchery alone. It was a witchhorn, so huge and adorned and complex it could only be the witchhorn. Could only be All-caller, the great, fey horn.
Josiah became apoplectic: “You pert young smart alec. That girl can't get married ’less I say so.” 
“You tell him, dear,” sighed Kittie, I can’t. 
Phil hesitated. 
Kittie Petersley slowly shook her head from side to side. Then she regarded her father with judicial severity. 
“Pa, all my life, you’ve kept the truth from me. To better keep me under your thumb, I suppose.” 
“Why—what—how’s this?”—stammered Josiah. 
“Don’t stall, Pa. Didn’t you find the tax schedule this morning? I got the papers mixed. Do you know what I took for the notary? It was my birth certificate. I’m eighteen.” 
SIMPLY THIS 
AND NOTHING MORE 
“Velocity eighteen thousand 
four . . .”
The officer mused for a minute or two.
"Did they go aboard another vessel?" he pondered. "Abandon ship--open the sea-cocks--sink it for the insurance?" He was trying vainly to find some answer to the problem, some explanation that would not impose too great a strain upon his own reason.
"I have reported to the owners," said Thorpe. "The _Minnie R._ was not heavily insured."
The Admiral ruffled some papers on his desk to find a report.
"There has been another," he told Thorpe. "A tramp freighter is listed as missing. She was last reported due east of the position you give. She was coming this way--must have come through about the same
water--" He caught himself up abruptly. Thorpe sensed that an Admiral of the Navy must not lend too credulous an ear to impossible stories.
"You've had an interesting experience, Mr. Thorpe," he said. "Most interesting. Probably a derelict is the answer, some hull just afloat. We will send out a general warning."
He handed the loose papers and the log book to the younger man. "This stuff is rubbish," he stated with emphasis. "Captain Wilkins held his command a year or so too long."
 	"Petrolia will be our armies, protecting our underground wealth," Lee Wong answered him. "They will be our faithful workers, under no
command but mine. For, even Krenski has not mastered the over-control it takes to handle them!



EPILOGUE

"Gradually, as happened to the field we are now under, all oil fields will go dry. We will be getting the oil from below, and putting it in storage in mother earth. Think, Blaine Asher, what it will mean!"
There was a fanatical light in Lee Wong's beady eyes.
"A world without petroleum is a world without power. No oil for fuel; no gasoline, lubricants or by-products of any sort. No airplanes could fly; tanks, tractors, oil-burning trains and ships; mechanical appliances-- nothing could run. We now take the oil from America. Later, when our Petrolia have increased and we have devised means of moving them, we will go to all oil-producing countries.
Then there’s Kit Reed’s “The Food Farm,” which like most of the stories in this book takes a notion and gives it the simplest possible twist, but 
with a good vocabulary and lots of cuteness lubricating the hard parts. Essentially, this kind of story is a spatter of code words and recognition symbols, evoking the spirit of intelligence and inquiry, flaunting credentials of sophistication. When you touch them they vanish, or become at best cardboard, Damon, cardboard. — Algis Budrys
"While starving to death," Gregor interrupted. He tried roast chicken, and this time the Configurator came through without hesitation. 
“Eureka!" Arnold shouted.
"Damn!" Gregor said. "I should have asked for a turkey. A big one.
They ate a frugal supper on the remains of the chicken and then Arnold completed his calculations. 

“Last supper. Bob,” she said. “Let’s eat, drink, and be merry.”
"Not so safe as you think," said a pert young rat, when the farmer had closed the door. " Come, my friend; we have been nearly starved lately: now is the time to enjoy ourselves. As the man said, 'This will last us some time.' We can eat without fear of getting soon to the end of it.'' 
All the rats now assembled to partake of the feast, and found the fresh-picked grain truly delicious. They continued eating voraciously from day to day, till this bountiful supply was all gone. The winter had now set in, and the ground was covered with snow. The improvident rats had now no provision, and were in danger of all dying of hunger. 
"How foolish we were," said one of them, " to eat it all so greedily, without thinking of the winter! If we had not been so wasteful and extravagant, there would have been enough barley to last till summer ; but now I suppose we must all starve." 
But the language was the least of her troubles in the winter that followed.
GEMS PULP FIC
w/A. Winslow
A collective aleatoric sci-fi pulp novel.

Go to: 
	Astounding Stories (1930s)
	or
	Galaxy Magazine (1950-80)
	or
The Pulp Magazine Archive 
(1896-50s)
 
Search for any substantive word in a previous passage (or find an interesting passage by any other means). Click through to the “text” file. Copy and paste the paragraph below. Arrange for coherence, where possible. We’ll aim for at least 100 pages. After, we’ll patch through to make an audiobook. {--DSS}

